So we did now build and use composite
and JavaScript actions,
let's now do the same for a Docker action.
And for this, I'm back in that same demo project as before,
but I'll add a new folder in this actions folder,
and I'll name it deploy-s3-docker,
because I'm still going to build the action
that will upload the website code to S3,
but we're now going to do this
with a different programming language than JavaScript,
and therefore, we'll use a Docker container
to set up an environment that supports
that programming language,
because GitHub Actions out of the box
only supports JavaScript and Docker,
and that's why we're using it now, because with Docker,
you can build a container
with any environment your code needs,
including an environment that supports
the programming language you want.
Now, since this is no Docker and no Python course,
and we already spend some time writing code here
with JavaScript, I provide the files that are needed
for this action for you,
at least all the files except for the action.yml file.
You'll find them attached,
and you should paste them into this deploy-s3-docker file.
Here, you get a deployment.py file,
which contains the actual Python code
for getting all the files that should be uploaded
and for then uploading those files,
and this code uses a package called Boto3,
which is provided by AWS,
which is the AWS SDK for Python to be precise,
which gives us methods for uploading files to S3,
this upload_file method here most importantly.
So this method will upload files to an S3 bucket,
and the rest of the code will simply identify the files
that should be uploaded and then upload them,
and then I'm still generating a website URL here.
I'm also setting it as an output,
but I'll get back to this later,
and I'm also extracting some inputs here,
but I'll get back to this later as well.
For the moment, it's enough to know
that this is all the Python code that's needed,
and the Docker file simply creates an environment
where this code will run.
It creates a new container based on some Python based image,
which gives us an environment where Python is installed,
Python version 3 to be precise,
then I copy this requirements text file into this container,
and this simply specifies some packages
that should be installed into the environment
for the Python code to work,
and that most importantly is this Boto3 package
and some extra dependencies, so that is copied over,
and then this command installs
all the dependencies mentioned in this file.
And then here, we also copy over the deployment.python file,
and execute it whenever a container is started based
on this image.
This is what this Docker file does,
this is what the requirements text file does,
and then we get this deployment.py file.
Again, I'll get back to some lines of code in there,
but for the moment, this is the base setup we need.